documentation/introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
---

# Introduction

HashiBox is a local environment to simulate a highly-available cloud with
[Consul](https://www.consul.io/), [Nomad](https://www.nomadproject.io/), and
[Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/). It also installs
[Docker](https://www.docker.com/) for running Nomad's jobs inside containers.

[Waypoint](https://www.waypointproject.io/) can be added but is optional.

It leverages [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) for virtualization, and
[Bolt](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/) for maintenance automation across nodes.

The main goal is to provide a local environment simulating a [HashiCorp Cloud
Platform](https://cloud.hashicorp.com) setup as close as possible. This allows
to test projects from end-to-end before going live.

## Infrastructure

This repository simulates a region called `us` in which there are 3 datacenters:
- `us-west-1` with IP address 192.168.x.10.
- `us-west-2` with IP address 192.168.x.20.
- `us-east-1` with IP address 192.168.x.30.

In each datacenter we install 2 nodes:
- One acting as a *server* for Consul, Nomad, and Vault with IP address
  192.168.60.x.
- One acting as a *client* for Consul and Nomad with IP address 192.168.61.x.
  Docker is also installed for running Nomad jobs inside containers.

Here is a summary table of the infrastructure setup using the default `Vagrantfile`
and the default configuration:

| Region | Datacenter  | Agent's mode | IP address    |
|--------|-------------|--------------|---------------|
| `us`   | `us-west-1` | *server*     | 192.168.60.10 |
| `us`   | `us-west-1` | *client*     | 192.168.61.10 |
| `us`   | `us-west-2` | *server*     | 192.168.60.20 |
| `us`   | `us-west-2` | *client*     | 192.168.61.20 |
| `us`   | `us-east-1` | *server*     | 192.168.60.30 |
| `us`   | `us-east-1` | *client*     | 192.168.61.30 |

## Cloning the repository

You can clone the repository with:
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/nunchistudio/hashibox
```

## Directory structure

Before continuing and installing the setup, it's important to take a look at the
directory structure to better understand how it works:

- `Vagrantfile`: This is the file to setup the required nodes using Vagrant.
  This also takes care of exposing the private network for each node with the IP
  addresses given earlier.
- `Makefile`: This is mainly used to simplify the installation process.
- `bolt.yaml`: Required file to leverage the Bolt command-line within this
  directory.
- `inventory.yaml`: This file is used by Bolt and allows us to organize our nodes
  per groups so we can then run tasks on different groups of nodes such as every
  nodes acting as `clients`, or every nodes in the `us-west-1` datacenter.
- `modules/`: This contains Bolt tasks and plans to execute on the remote nodes.
- `uploads/`: This directory is used to upload files for each node, in each
  datacenter, for each region.
  - `us/`: Applied for the `us` region.
    - `_defaults/`: This directory contains the default configuration files that
      will be applied to all nodes present in the `us` region.
    - `us-west-1/`: This directory contains the specific configuration files for
      the `us-west-1` datacenter only.
    - `us-west-2/`: This directory contains the specific configuration files for
      the `us-west-2` datacenter only.
    - `us-east-1/`: This directory contains the specific configuration files for
      the `us-east-1` datacenter only.

---

**Next:** [Installation](./installation.md)

Commit message:

feat: Add support for HashiCorp Enterprise products
Signed-off-by: Loïc Saint-Roch <loic@nunchi.studio>

documentation/introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
---

# Introduction

HashiBox is a local environment to simulate a highly-available cloud with
[Consul](https://www.consul.io/), [Nomad](https://www.nomadproject.io/), and
[Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/). OSS and Enterprise versions of each
product are supported.

[Waypoint](https://www.waypointproject.io/) can be added but is optional.

It also installs [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) for running Nomad's jobs
inside containers.

It leverages [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) for virtualization, and
[Bolt](https://puppet.com/docs/bolt/) for maintenance automation across nodes.

The main goal is to provide a local environment simulating a [HashiCorp Cloud
Platform](https://cloud.hashicorp.com) setup as close as possible. This allows
to test projects from end-to-end before going live.

## Infrastructure

This repository simulates a region called `us` in which there are 3 datacenters:
- `us-west-1` with IP address 192.168.x.10.
- `us-west-2` with IP address 192.168.x.20.
- `us-east-1` with IP address 192.168.x.30.

In each datacenter we install 2 nodes:
- One acting as a *server* for Consul, Nomad, and Vault with IP address
  192.168.60.x.
- One acting as a *client* for Consul and Nomad with IP address 192.168.61.x.
  Docker is also installed for running Nomad jobs inside containers.

Here is a summary table of the infrastructure setup using the default `Vagrantfile`
and the default configuration:

| Region | Datacenter  | Agent's mode | IP address    |
|--------|-------------|--------------|---------------|
| `us`   | `us-west-1` | *server*     | 192.168.60.10 |
| `us`   | `us-west-1` | *client*     | 192.168.61.10 |
| `us`   | `us-west-2` | *server*     | 192.168.60.20 |
| `us`   | `us-west-2` | *client*     | 192.168.61.20 |
| `us`   | `us-east-1` | *server*     | 192.168.60.30 |
| `us`   | `us-east-1` | *client*     | 192.168.61.30 |

## Cloning the repository

You can clone the repository with:
```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/nunchistudio/hashibox
```

## Directory structure

Before continuing and installing the setup, it's important to take a look at the
directory structure to better understand how it works:

- `Vagrantfile`: This is the file to setup the required nodes using Vagrant.
  This also takes care of exposing the private network for each node with the IP
  addresses given earlier.
- `Makefile`: This is mainly used to simplify the installation process.
- `bolt.yaml`: Required file to leverage the Bolt command-line within this
  directory.
- `inventory.yaml`: This file is used by Bolt and allows us to organize our nodes
  per groups so we can then run tasks on different groups of nodes such as every
  nodes acting as `clients`, or every nodes in the `us-west-1` datacenter.
- `modules/`: This contains Bolt tasks and plans to execute on the remote nodes.
- `uploads/`: This directory is used to upload files for each node, in each
  datacenter, for each region.
  - `us/`: Applied for the `us` region.
    - `_defaults/`: This directory contains the default configuration files that
      will be applied to all nodes present in the `us` region.
    - `us-west-1/`: This directory contains the specific configuration files for
      the `us-west-1` datacenter only.
    - `us-west-2/`: This directory contains the specific configuration files for
      the `us-west-2` datacenter only.
    - `us-east-1/`: This directory contains the specific configuration files for
      the `us-east-1` datacenter only.

---

**Next:** [Installation](./installation.md)
