documentation/vault-init.md, before:

---
title: Vault initialization
---

# Vault initialization

Once the Vagrant setup is done, you must initialize (and unseal Vault *servers*)
in order for Nomad to work as expected.

## Initialize Vault

If you go to <http://192.168.60.10:8200> you will see the Vault UI for the server
node on the `eu-west-1` datacenter. For our demo, let's configure Vault simply
with:
![Vault initialization](../assets/vault-init-01.png)

Copy and paste in your notes the initial root token given as well as the key:
![Vault initialization](../assets/vault-init-02.png)

## Restart the environment

You can now restart the Consul, Nomad, and Vault with the Vault token:
```bash
$ UBUNTU_VERSION=<version> VAULT_TOKEN=<token> make sync
```

This will restart the services and pass the `VAULT_TOKEN` environment variable
down to the Vagrant boxes. This way, it can be used by Consul and Nomad for
interacting with Vault.

## Unseal Vault

If you access the Consul UI at <http://192.168.60.10:8500>, you will note that
Vault is still not healthy:
![Consul Services](../assets/consul-init-02.png)

It is because you need to unseal Vault on every nodes. To achieve this, access
the Vault UI and unseal Vault on *server* nodes via:
- <http://192.168.60.10:8200> for `eu-west-1`
- <http://192.168.60.20:8200> for `eu-west-2`
- <http://192.168.60.30:8200> for `eu-east-1`

In Consul, we can see that every health checks are now passing and the service list
looks like this:
![Consul Services](../assets/consul-services.png)

Since Vault is heathly, Nomad can interact with it via the root token passed with
`VAULT_TOKEN`. Let's take a look at Nomad:
![Nomad Clients](../assets/nomad-clients.png)

---

**Happy hacking!**

Commit message:

Create Vault unseal shortcut
  - update docs
  - add to maintenance doc
  - Set defaults for UBUNTU_VERSION and VAGRANT_PROVIDER

Signed-off-by: Richard Chen Zheng <58443436+rchenzheng@users.noreply.github.com>

documentation/vault-init.md, after:

---
title: Vault initialization
---

# Vault initialization

Once the Vagrant setup is done, you must initialize (and unseal Vault *servers*)
in order for Nomad to work as expected.

## Initialize Vault

If you go to <http://192.168.60.10:8200> you will see the Vault UI for the server
node on the `eu-west-1` datacenter. For our demo, let's configure Vault simply
with:
![Vault initialization](../assets/vault-init-01.png)

Copy and paste in your notes the initial root token given as well as the key:
![Vault initialization](../assets/vault-init-02.png)

## Restart the environment

You can now restart the Consul, Nomad, and Vault with the Vault token:
```bash
$ UBUNTU_VERSION=<version> VAULT_TOKEN=<token> make sync
```

This will restart the services and pass the `VAULT_TOKEN` environment variable
down to the Vagrant boxes. This way, it can be used by Consul and Nomad for
interacting with Vault.

## Unseal Vault

If you access the Consul UI at <http://192.168.60.10:8500>, you will note that
Vault is still not healthy:
![Consul Services](../assets/consul-init-02.png)

It is because you need to unseal Vault on every node. To achieve this, access the Vault UI and unseal Vault on *server* nodes via:
- <http://192.168.60.10:8200> for `eu-west-1`
- <http://192.168.60.20:8200> for `eu-west-2`
- <http://192.168.60.30:8200> for `eu-east-1`


After fetching your unseal key and token from one of the Vault servers you can use the `unseal` shortcut to unseal the remainder Vault servers or subsequent unseals

```bash
$ VAULT_UNSEAL_KEY=<vault-unseal-key> make unseal
```

In Consul, we can see that every health checks are now passing and the service list
looks like this:
![Consul Services](../assets/consul-services.png)

Since Vault is heathly, Nomad can interact with it via the root token passed with
`VAULT_TOKEN`. Let's take a look at Nomad:
![Nomad Clients](../assets/nomad-clients.png)

---

**Happy hacking!**
